1. OOPs -
Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm that models software entities as objects, which have data (attributes) and behaviors (methods), and interact with each other to solve problems. It's like viewing the world as a collection of interacting objects.

"Object-Oriented Programming is a programming approach where we design software using objects, which are instances of classes. These objects encapsulate data and behaviors, providing a modular and intuitive way to represent real-world entities and their interactions."

Eg. CAR, Bank Account

2. Module or Modular approach - 

In the context of programming, a module refers to a self-contained unit of code that performs a specific functionality. It encapsulates related variables, functions, and classes, providing a way to organize and structure code effectively. Modules help in breaking down large programs into smaller, manageable parts, making the code more modular and easier to maintain, reuse, and understand.

3. Object and Class

4. Pillar of OOPs
    1. Data Abstraction
    2. Encapsulation
    3. Inheritance - Single, MultiLevel, Hierarchical, Multiple (Diamond problem).
    4. Polymorphism
        1. Compile Time/ Static polymorphism/ method overloading
        2. Run Time / Dynamic polymorphism/ method overriding

4. Relationship 
    1. Is - a relationship
    2. Has-a relationship

* "is-a" Relationship: The "is-a" relationship, also known as inheritance or specialization, signifies that one class is a subtype of another class. Eg. Shape, Circle, Rectangle, Square 
* "has-a" Relationship: The "has-a" relationship, also known as composition or aggregation, signifies that one class has another class as a component or member. Eg. a Car, which has Engine, Wheel, and Seat

5. SOLID - 

S - Single Responsibility Priciple
O - Open/Closed Principle
L - Liskov Substitution Principle
I - Interface segmented Principle
D - Dependency Inversion Principle

Advantages:
1. helps to write a better Code
2. Avoid duplicate Code
3. Easy to maintain
4. Easy to understand
5. Flexible software
6. Reduce complexity

S - Single Responsibility Principle —> A class has only 1 reason to change
O - Open/Close Principle —> Open for extension but close for modification
L - Liskov Substitution Principle —> If class B is  subtype of class A, then we should be able to replace object of A with B without breaking the behaviour of the program. Subclass should extend the capacity of parent class not narrow it down.
I - Interface Segmented Principle —> Interface should be such that client should not implement unnecessary functions that they do not need.
D - Dependency Inversion Principle —> Class should depend on interfaces rather than concrete class

6. Design Patterns - 
Design patterns are general reusable solutions to common problems in software design.

Types - They are categorized into several types based on their purposes and use cases.

1. Creational Patterns - 
    Creational patterns deal with object creation mechanisms, trying to create objects in a manner suitable to the situation.
        a. Singleton
        b. Factory methods(*)
        c. Abstract Factory*
        d. Builder(*)
        e. Prototype
        f. Object Pool
    
2. Structural Patterns - 
    Structural patterns deal with object composition and typically help ensure that if one part of a system changes, the entire system doesn't need to do the same. They help in composing classes and objects to form larger structures.
        a. Adapter
        b. Bridge
        c. Composite(*)
        d. Decorator(*)
        e. Facade
        f. Flyweight
        g. Proxy

3. Behavioral Patterns - 
    Behavioral patterns focus on communication between objects, what goes on between objects and how they operate together. They are concerned with algorithms and the assignment of responsibilities between objects.
        a. Chain of Responsibility
        b. Command
        c. Interpreter
        d. Iterator
        e. Mediator
        f. Memento
        g. Observer(*)
        h. State
        i. Strategy(*)
        j. Template Method
        k. Visitor
